
[//]: <> (Generated by ugodoc. DO NOT EDIT.)

# `time` Module

## Types

### location

Go Type

```go
// Location represents location values and implements ugo.Object interface.
type Location struct {
   ugo.ObjectImpl
   *time.Location
}
```

### time

Go Type

```go
// Time represents time values and implements ugo.Object interface.
type Time struct {
  Value time.Time
}
```

#### Overloaded time Operators

- `time + int` -> time
- `time - int` -> time
- `time - time` -> int
- `time < time` -> bool
- `time > time` -> bool
- `time <= time` -> bool
- `time >= time` -> bool

Note that, `int` values as duration must be the right hand side operand.

#### time Getters

Dynamically calculated getters for a time value are as follows:

| Selector  | Return Type                                     |
|:----------|:------------------------------------------------|
|.Date      | {"year": int, "month": int, "day": int}         |
|.Clock     | {"hour": int, "minute": int, "second": int}     |
|.UTC       | time                                            |
|.Unix      | int                                             |
|.UnixNano  | int                                             |
|.Year      | int                                             |
|.Month     | int                                             |
|.Day       | int                                             |
|.Hour      | int                                             |
|.Minute    | int                                             |
|.Second    | int                                             |
|.NanoSecond| int                                             |
|.IsZero    | bool                                            |
|.Local     | time                                            |
|.Location  | location                                        |
|.YearDay   | int                                             |
|.Weekday   | int                                             |
|.ISOWeek   | {"year": int, "week": int}                      |
|.Zone      | {"name": string, "offset": int}                 |

## Constants

### Months

- `January`: int(1)
- `February`: int(2)
- `March`: int(3)
- `April`: int(4)
- `May`: int(5)
- `June`: int(6)
- `July`: int(7)
- `August`: int(8)
- `September`: int(9)
- `October`: int(10)
- `November`: int(11)
- `December`: int(12)

### Weekdays

- `Sunday`: int(0)
- `Monday`: int(1)
- `Tuesday`: int(2)
- `Wednesday`: int(3)
- `Thursday`: int(4)
- `Friday`: int(5)
- `Saturday`: int(6)

### Layouts

- `ANSIC`: string("Mon Jan _2 15:04:05 2006")
- `UnixDate`: string("Mon Jan _2 15:04:05 MST 2006")
- `RubyDate`: string("Mon Jan 02 15:04:05 -0700 2006")
- `RFC822`: string("02 Jan 06 15:04 MST")
- `RFC822Z`: string("02 Jan 06 15:04 -0700")
- `RFC850`: string("Monday, 02-Jan-06 15:04:05 MST")
- `RFC1123`: string("Mon, 02 Jan 2006 15:04:05 MST")
- `RFC1123Z`: string("Mon, 02 Jan 2006 15:04:05 -0700")
- `RFC3339`: string("2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00")
- `RFC3339Nano`: string("2006-01-02T15:04:05.999999999Z07:00")
- `Kitchen`: string("3:04PM")
- `Stamp`: string("Jan _2 15:04:05")
- `StampMilli`: string("Jan _2 15:04:05.000")
- `StampMicro`: string("Jan _2 15:04:05.000000")
- `StampNano`: string("Jan _2 15:04:05.000000000")

### Durations

- `Nanosecond`: int(1)
- `Microsecond`: int(1000)
- `Millisecond`: int(1000000)
- `Second`: int(1000000000)
- `Minute`: int(60000000000)
- `Hour`: int(3600000000000)

## Functions

`MonthString(m int) -> month string`

Returns English name of the month m ("January", "February", ...).

---

`WeekdayString(w int) -> weekday string`

Returns English name of the int weekday w, note that 0 is Sunday.

---

`DurationString(d int) -> string`

Returns a string representing the duration d in the form "72h3m0.5s".

---

`DurationNanoseconds(d int) -> int`

Returns the duration d as an int nanosecond count.

---

`DurationMicroseconds(d int) -> int`

Returns the duration d as an int microsecond count.

---

`DurationMilliseconds(d int) -> int`

Returns the duration d as an int millisecond count.

---

`DurationSeconds(d int) -> float`

Returns the duration d as a floating point number of seconds.

---

`DurationMinutes(d int) -> float`

Returns the duration d as a floating point number of minutes.

---

`DurationHours(d int) -> float`

Returns the duration d as a floating point number of hours.

---

`Sleep(duration int) -> undefined`

Pauses the current goroutine for at least the duration.

---

`ParseDuration(s string) -> duration int`

Parses duration s and returns duration as int.

---

`DurationRound(duration int, m int) -> duration int`

Returns the result of rounding duration to the nearest multiple of m.

---

`DurationTruncate(duration int, m int) -> duration int`

Returns the result of rounding duration toward zero to a multiple of m.

---

`FixedZone(name string, sec int) -> location`

Returns a Location that always uses the given zone name and offset
(seconds east of UTC).

---

`LoadLocation(name string) -> location`

Returns the Location with the given name.

---

`IsLocation(any) -> bool`

Reports whether any value is of location type.

---

`Time() -> time`

Returns zero time.

---

`Since(t time) -> duration int`

Returns the time elapsed since t.

---

`Until(t time) -> duration int`

Returns the duration until t.

---

`Date(year int, month int, day int[, hour int, min int, sec int, nsec int, loc location]) -> time`

Returns the Time corresponding to yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss + nsec nanoseconds
in the appropriate zone for that time in the given location. Zero values
of optional arguments are used if not provided.

---

`Now() -> time`

Returns the current local time.

---

`Parse(layout string, value string[, loc location]) -> time`

Parses a formatted string and returns the time value it represents.
If location is not provided, Go's `time.Parse` function is called
otherwise `time.ParseInLocation` is called.

---

`Unix(sec int[, nsec int]) -> time`

Returns the local time corresponding to the given Unix time,
sec seconds and nsec nanoseconds since January 1, 1970 UTC.
Zero values of optional arguments are used if not provided.

---

`Add(t time, duration int) -> time`

Returns the time of t+duration.

---

`Sub(t1 time, t2 time) -> int`

Returns the duration of t1-t2.

---

`AddDate(t time, years int, months int, days int) -> time`

Returns the time corresponding to adding the given number of
years, months, and days to t.

---

`After(t1 time, t2 time) -> bool`

Reports whether the time t1 is after t2.

---

`Before(t1 time, t2 time) -> bool`

Reports whether the time t1 is before t2.

---

`Format(t time, layout string) -> string`

Returns a textual representation of the time value formatted according
to layout.

---

`AppendFormat(t time, b bytes, layout string) -> bytes`

It is like `Format` but appends the textual representation to b and
returns the extended buffer.

---

`In(t time, loc location) -> time`

Returns a copy of t representing the same time t, but with the copy's
location information set to loc for display purposes.

---

`Round(t time, duration int) -> time`

Round returns the result of rounding t to the nearest multiple of
duration.

---

`Truncate(t time, duration int) -> time`

Truncate returns the result of rounding t down to a multiple of duration.

---

`IsTime(any) -> bool`

Reports whether any value is of time type.
